This is a collection of games, and some useful widgets which
have been used in their construction.

I've tested everything here with the original R6 release, but only
on a Sparc-10 running SunOS 4.

The Widgets (Xkw/):

	Layout		a constraint based geometry widget.  Included in
			this release is some code purported to make it work
			with Motif; I cannot test that as I do not have access
			to Motif.

	Hand, Cards	Playing card management widget; does all of the
			nasty redisplay and layout of stacks of overlapping
			cards.  Cards is a subclass and deals with regular
			playing cards.

	Message		Utilities which allow a printf-style interface
			to the Athena Label widget.

	Pad		A text display widget; handles scrolling and
			simple repaint.  More powerful than Label as
			it optimizes repaint, but it only handles
			char cell fonts.
			
	Thermo		Displays a "thermometer" for indicating a
			bounded-range value.  Draws tick-marks and
			numbers.  Handles both vertical and horizontal
			orientation.

The Games (everything else).  For rules on how to play them,
consult Hoyle or just play around and see what they'll let you do.

	dominos		Double 9 dominos against the computer.

	kcanfield	Standard Canfield solitare.

	kcribbage	Cribbage against the computer.  The 
			score keeping widget is not very pretty.

	kklondike	"Regular" solitaire.

	kmontana	An interesting single-deck solitaire.  Stolen
			from the Macintosh game of the same name.

	kspider		The classic double-deck solitaire.  Probably
			the most interesting game here.

	kthieves	40-thieves.  I've only seen this won a few times.

	ktowers		A perfect-knowledge single deck game.  Nearly every
			configuration can be eventually solved.

	mcarlo		Monte-carlo.  A very simple matching solitaire.
			Written by Dave Lemke

	reversi		Or "Othello", except that that name is copywritten.

	slyfox		Any easier double-deck solitaire.  This one includes
			instructions; see slyfox-rules.
			Written by Dave Lemke

	xmille		My first X program.  Doesn't look much like the 
			original anymore, except for the gory pictures.


Keith Packard
keithp@ncd.com
June 6, 1994
