Version 4 Notes
---------------

Version 4 of olvwm is based on the version of olwm which comes with the 3.2
version of xview.  It requires that you have version 3.2 of the olgx library,
though it can get by with version 3.0 of the olgx library.  If you are compiling
the olgx library yourself, make sure that you change the defines in the
ol_button.*.c files so that you pick up the correct one (if you have a Sun and
are using the OS-supplied olgx library, the correct file will be piced up
automatically).

Previous versions of this have been ported to many platforms, but I've probably
broken all of that with version 4.  Thus, I can only say for sure that this
runs under Solaris 2.3.  I've compiled and run it under other versions of
Solaris (including 1.1.1 or SunOs 4.1.3), but I haven't extensively tested
those version.  Hopefully, others will again test/port the new sections of
this code and I'll include patches for other platforms in a later release
(in which release any new code will still probably not be completely
portable; this is quite a logistical problem).

A note about internationalization:  I've compiled tested and run this for
Internationalization level 3 in the C locale.  I don't have other locales
to test it in, so it probably will not work correctly in those locales.
There is code here which supports level 4 (which all came from the olwm 3.2
release) which you can work with, but again, I can't say if it will work
or not.

KNOWN BUGS with Solaris 2.3:
    1)  Restarting olvwm often causes the server to crash.  This is due to
	a bug in the server [Sun bugid 1147131].

    2)  Display postscript applications will not work if you use a lot of
	colors in olvwm (usually only a problem if you use a X pixmap or
	GIF file with lots of colors for the VDM or a menu somewhere).
	This affects the answerbook docviewer as well as other things.
	As a workaround, you can use the MaxMapColors to reduce the number
	of colors allocated by olvwm, or you can start a DPS application
	before you start olvwm.  [Sun bugid 1145502.]

What Is OLVWM:
------------
Olvwm (OPEN LOOK virtual window manager) is an ICCCM compliant window manager
supplied for use with the XView toolkit.  It is derived from olwm, the
OPEN LOOK window manager supplied with the XView release.  This version of
olvwm is based on version 3 of the XView release.

This is a completely new source distribution; there is no patch file to
get from version 2 of olvwm to version 3, as the patch file would have
been significantly larger than the new source.  You should archive
your old source before proceeding.

This program requires the following libraries, headers, fonts, etc.  If
you have version 3 of Sun's OpenWindows product, you will have everything
you need.  Otherwise, you'll need the following pieces of the XView3 release,
which is currently available from export.lcs.mit.edu in /contrib/xview3:

    1)  Version 3 of the olgx library (libolgx.a or it's shared-library
	counterpart).  This is available with the XView3 distribution
	on export.lcs.mit.edu in /contrib/xview3.  You can also get just
	the olgx library in /pub/R5untarred/contrib/lib/xview3/lib/libolgx;
	though it will require some work to get this to compile without
	the rest of the xview3 source.  This library will work on R4
	as well as R5.

    2)  OPEN LOOK fonts; by default, these fonts are already included in the
	FCS X Version 11 Release 4 and Release 5 distribution.  You will only
	need these fonts if you are using an older version of the server; they
	can be found in the contrib/toolkits/XView/fonts directory.

    3)  If you use the OPEN LOOK help mechanism, you will need the program
	called olwmslave.  This is also in the XView3 distribution as well
	as in /pub/R5untarred/contrib/lib/xview3/clients/olwmslave.  You
	do not *need* this program; if you don't have it then you will
	not be able to use the HELP key to get help about olvwm buttons, etc.
	In this case, you should make sure to set the RunSlaveProcess to
	False in your .Xdefaults file or you'll get annoying messages about
	olwmslave not being found.

Two man page for olvwm, olvwm.man and olvwmrc.man, can be found in this
directory.  These man pages discuss only features of olvwm not present in
olwm; the olwm man page (olwm.man) may also be found in this directory
should you need it.


Building OLVWM:
--------------

If you have Sun's OPENWINDOWS Version 3.0, the simplest way to make the
release is to use the Makefile.sunpro makefile.  Simply typing
    % make -f Makefile.sunpro
will compile olvwm; 
    % make -f Makefile.sunpro install
will install the binary and manual pages according to locations given at the
top of Makefile.sunpro.

If you prefer, you may use the Imakefile instead.  The Imakefile depends
upon the XView library configuration files being installed correctly.  Check
the top of Imakefile for some additional installation information.

When compiling, you will get messages in usermenu.c and olvwmrc.c that
a statement is not reached.  You may safely ignore this message.


Installation:
-------------

The following files are installed via a make install:

    olvwm -- placed into DESTDIR (if you use imake) or INSTALLDIR (if you
		use Makefile.sunpro)
    olvwm.man, olvwmrc.man -- placed into MANPATH (if you use imake) or
		MAN1DIR and MAN5DIR respectively (if you use Makefile.sunpro)
    olvwm.info -- placed into HELPDIR

See the desired Makefile for options on overriding this behaviour.


Reporting Bugs:
--------------
This code is not supported by Sun Microsystems in any way; please do not
use the standard xview bug report form for reporting bugs on this code.
Bugs may be reported to Scott Oaks (scott.oaks@East.Sun.COM), who will
try to fix bugs whenever he can.
