Rolo, release 2.0, patch level 6

Patch 6:
/*
    The notify proc for the "Expression:" field has now been set
    to the Find function allow you to hit <ENTER> to start a
    search.
*/
    Fixed problem w/ large selections causing xrolo core when
    dialing.

    The format of the list generated by the list button has 
    changed slightly.

    The main textwindow now allows files to be dropped into it.

    Several xv_set calls in panel.c were not NULL terminated which 
    cause xrolo to core unpredictable.

    Made XView 3.0 compliant.
	
    Added e-mail menu item to communication button.  After highlighting 
    the e-mail address or typing it in the "Expression" filed selection
    of this menu item creates a sendmail window which allows the user 
    to create a mail mesg and on command mails the mesg to the desired
    user.

    Added ~ expansion to file name completion.  xrolo no longer cd's
    to $HOME.  All file names are now relative to the current directory.
    Thanks Mark Linderman <linder@ee.cornell.edu>!

Patch 5:
    Added ability to use regex match when creating lists of cards.
    This functionality has also been added to the print function. All
    three types of regex matching (Soundex, Case Insensitive and Egrep)
    are supported.

    Added dialing support for SparcStations.  Xrolo now knows how to
    use the internal speaker in SS to dial touch tones.  3 new
    resources have been added. xrolo.DefaultVolume, xrolo.DialPrefix
    and xrolo.UseDialPrefix.

    Added OL ifdef to panel.c.  when OL is defined at compile time
    xrolo used OL type buttons instead of PANEL_IMAGE buttons.

    Faster list_button function.

	Replaced load/save from/to file menu items in the file menu w/
    item called "File IO" which creates a panel w/ file name, load, save,
    and cancel widgets.  This panel stays sticks around until the user
    selects the cancel button.  This feature allows users to switch
    between rolo databases quickly.  I would have used a FRAME_CMD to
    implement this functionality but I couldnt get FRAME_CMD to work
    correctly for me.  In the future a pin will be provided to the user so
    that he may control the File IO panel directly.

Patch 4:
    Replaced list_button procedure with one that is much faster and 
    does not have the irritating scroll.  This new function does lots
    of malloc'ing. If malloc's cause you problems you can get to the
    old list function be defining DONT_USE_MALLOC_LIST.

    Added a few more include statements to prevent compilation errors
    on some architectures.

	Added soundex (sounds like) searching.  Soundex algorithm was
    adapted from code by Jonathan Leffler (john@sphinx.co.uk). Thanks
    John! Replaces "xrolo.SloppyRegexMatch" resource by the more
    general "xrolo.SearchType".  Resource values of 0, 1 and 2 represent
    egrep(1), sloppy or soundex searches respectively.

    When executing a find, strings in cards matching regex are now
    centered in the textsw and the insertion point is set to the base
    address of the matching string.  This facilitates finding entries
    in cards with many lines of text.

    added missing "#include <ctype.h>" in send_mail.c.

Patch 3:
    Added rudimentary field sort. Each line in the rolo card is
    considered to be a separate field.  A filed sort can be accomplished by
    pointing and clicking on the desired field before invoking the sort. 

    Added Mail to Author menu entry to Help button.  This menu entry
    allows users to mail comments to me directly.

    Exchanged location of Find and End button to reduce the amount of
    mouse travel needed execute a find.

    fixed bug which caused xrolo to core when setting the default print
    command from the menu selection with out having previously set the
    xrolo.PrintCommand resource.

    Added case [in]sensitive sorting.  There is a new menu item which
    allows you to set the sort mode.  The xrolo.CaseInsensitive resource
    can be used to set the default search mode.

    Added the xrolo.TextWidth resource which allows setting the
    default text window width in pixels.

Patch 2:
    this version only runs under X and the XView toolkit or
    OpenWindows version 1.1 and up.

    Added print button and X resource to set default print command.

    Fixed problems with selection service.

    Added file name query panel for Save/Load to/from named file.
    The old method of using the selection service to enter file
    names is still supported.  Query Panel only appears if there is
    no text in the selection service.

    Added ability to go to selection in list by clicking on the
    entry and <SHIFT>-click on listbutton.

    Added capital insensitive search and X resource to set the
    default search mode.

    Changed the find button icon.

    Changed panel layout to be more space efficient.

Patch 1:
  main.c:
    Add missing 0 to end of icon_create() attribute list, caused a
    seg fault on SPARC systems.

    Break card text subwindow setup into two parts to avoid SunView
    bug which causes a seg fault if user has selected retained text
    subwindows in the Defaults database.

    Re-organize the method windows are setup and the way command line args
    are handled so that user-specified window parms are handled properly.

  README:
    Update info about which systems Rolo will run on.
