

The DsTool program is the property of:

                             Cornell University 
                        Center of Applied Mathematics 
                              Ithaca, NY 14853
		      dstool_bugs@macomb.tn.cornell.edu

and may be used, modified and distributed freely, subject to the following
restrictions:

       Any product which incorporates source code from the DsTool
       program or utilities, in whole or in part, is distributed
       with a copy of that source code, including this notice. You
       must give the recipients all the rights that you have with
       respect to the use of this software. Modifications of the
       software must carry prominent notices stating who changed
       the files and the date of any change.

DsTool is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
The software is provided as is without any obligation on the part of Cornell 
faculty, staff or students to assist in its use, correction, modification or
enhancement.

I. DsTool Program Description
------------------------------------------------------

There is a critical need for computational environments that provide effective
tools for exploring dynamical systems with minimal effort on the part of the
user.  Research that relies upon the investigation of dynamical systems would
be greatly enhanced by a standard, uniform environment for the exploration of
these systems with computers.

The explosion of the graphical computational capabilities of relatively in-
expensive desktop computers in the past few years makes the development of such
an environment both feasible and timely.  The program described here, called
DsTool (pronounced dee-ess-TOOL), describes an implementation of one such 
environment for the Sun UNIX workstation.  It is an efficient research tool 
that integrates a friendly graphical user interface, data management 
capabilities, a rich set of numerical algorithms together with the  
flexibility to add more algorithms and communicate data with other programs.  
DsTool has been implemented for use with the X Window system from MIT  
and is based upon the program kaos, written by S. Kim and J. Guckenheimer.

Release and Installation Notes:  DsTool  (Version 2.0)
------------------------------------------------------

The DsTool package for the investigation of dynamical systems is available in 
three ways:  

	 1.  From a network archive server maintained by the Center for 
	     Applied Mathematics at Cornell University.  The server's 
	     address is
			      macomb.cam.cornell.edu
			      (Internet address:  132.236.122.12)

             Use ftp to download the program from the pub subdirectory, 
	     after anonymous login.  For more details, see the DsTool
	     installation manual.

         2.  DsTool can be distributed on a set of 3.5 inch diskettes. 
	     Write the authors at the above address for more information.
         
	 3.  DsTool can be distributed on a 1/4 inch tape. Write the 
	     authors at the above address for more information.  We will
	     require a blank tape on which to write your distribution
	     copy.

If you are updating from Version 1.x, we suggest you install Version 2.0
in a new directory (e.g. /usr/local/dstool_2.0). Users will need to
update their DSTOOL environment variable to point to this directory.
They should also be told of the updating procedure described in the 
file $DSTOOL/USER_UPDATING.

To install the software:

       1.  Create a subdirectory to hold the dstool software files and 
	   utilities. In what follows, let <dstool_dir> denote the name 
	   of this sub-directory.

       2.  Copy the file dstool_2.0.tar from the distribution media to the 
	   subdirectory created in step 1.  Change your working directory to 
	   <dstool_dir>.  

       3.  Type:
			  tar -xvf dstool_2.0.tar

       4.  Set the environment variable DSTOOL to be <dstool_dir> and check
	   that the environment variable OPENWINHOME is properly defined.  
	   Make sure $OPENWINHOME/lib is included in the link path 
	   ( $LD_LIBRARY_PATH ).

       5.  If using the optional FORTRAN or TCL components, set
	   the environment variables FORTHOME and TCLHOME as well.
	   (These should be set to directories containing the
	   relevant libraries.)

       6.  Change your working directory to be <dstool_dir>/bin by typing:

			  cd <dstool_dir>/bin

           where <dstool_dir> is the name of the subdirectory in step 1.


       7.  Run the install script by typing:

			  install_dstool

           The script will present a number of questions to be answered by the
	   user.

After unpacking, a list of libraries and include files used by dstool will 
be found in $DSTOOL/site_specific/DEPENDENCIES. If your xview, olgx, or 
X11 files are in different places than the standard Open Windows 
Distribution, this will be a useful file to check.

Consult the dstool installation manual for more detailed discussion of the 
installation procedure.  Please direct all inquiries and bug reports to 

			dstool_bugs@cam.cornell.edu

If you would like to be included on a dstool mailing list to receive
notices about dstool updates, future releases, and bug fixes, please
send your e-mail address to:

			dstool-list@cam.cornell.edu

