
SlingShot extensions 2.0

COMPILING
---------

You will need OpenWindows or XView version 3.0 (or later) to compile this.

	1) cd to the top directory (the one that contains this README file)
	2) type "make"

Everything should compile and execute without problems under both 
SunOS 5.x and SunOS 4.x.


INSTALLATION
------------

After building, type 'make install INSTALL_DIR=/where/you/want/it'.  This
will copy only the static library, shared libraries, and include files
to the directory you specify.

Installing is optional.  If you want the source to be seperate from the
working libraries, then this is handy.  The major difference is where
you compile and link your programs, and where you expect shared
libraries to be when your programs execute.  The structure of the
install directory is the same as the source hierarchy, minus the
library source code and examples.


DIRECTORIES
-----------

The directory structure that lies below this is as follows:

	./include/sspkg
		The include files.

	./src
		Source for the library.

	./lib
		Shared and static libraries by default are built here.

	./examples
		Source for demos and examples.  This is the first place
		(after building) to look if you want a quick feel for
		the extensions.  These programs are intended to be
		programming examples, rather than end-user programs.
		See the manual for an explaination of their function.


RELEASE INFO
------------

Okay, so what's up in this release?  There have been alot of changes,
so programs that compile and work under 1.0 may take some massaging to
get to compile.  For example, the 1.0 dnd interface has been replaced
and is compatible with xview 3.x DragDrop interfaces.  Programs written
to the 1.0 interface will require porting.

You can look at the documentation for the details, but here's a few
teasers:  there are new objects (clock, bag, box).  The grip and the
drawarea have had a few interesting features added.  The documentation
has been improved dramatically.  The drawtext can now be editible.


CAVEATS
-------

This is NOT an official or supported product of Sun Microsystems, Inc.
This software has been developed to leverage other efforts, and it is
being released because it is hoped others can get benefits from it
too.  However, there ARE bugs in this software which may never be
fixed, and there is no guarantee of compatability between releases.

BUGS
----

Send general questions & comments to slingshot-interest@gazooch.eng.sun.com 
(mail alias).

