Crock   -- version 1.0
-----

This is a initial version of crock, a rock 'em, sock 'em robots
sort of game.  It borrows ideas from rock 'em, sock 'em robots, mortal
kombat, nethack and probably other things I'm not consciously aware of.

There are four subdirectories: config, frames, src and util.

config contains configuration files for crock that are read when the
games is run.  There are two types of config files, general config
and player specific config.  They are documented in the man pages
included in the src directory (config.crock.5 and player.config.5).

frames contains all sorts of sounds and bitmaps and such that the 
games uses.  It is quite bloatful.

src contains the source.  There is a README in that directory that
tells you how to compile and run crock, as well as man pages and an
Imakefile.  Note that you will need to edit the Imakefile and change
the path for the config file at the top of the Imakefile.

utils contains some utility programs that may be useful for those
that are interested in developing your own characters or mucking
with the existing ones.  There is a README file in that directory
that describes the programs that are included.  The code there in C,
Perl and tcl/tk.

I might have other information in my web page, currently:
http://www.cis.ohio-state.edu:80/hypertext/people/frank_adelstein.html
but soon to be accessible:
http://www.cis.ohio-state.edu:80/~frank/crock.html

Have a blast.

--Frank Adelstein.
  frank@cis.ohio-state.edu.

p.s. to make legal types happy...

     Copyright (c) 1994    Frank Adelstein

     The X Consortium, and any party obtaining a copy of these files from
     the X Consortium, directly or indirectly, is granted, free of charge, a
     full and unrestricted irrevocable, world-wide, paid up, royalty-free,
     nonexclusive right and license to deal in this software and
     documentation files (the "Software"), including without limitation the
     rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
     and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons who receive
     copies from any such party to do so.  This license includes without
     limitation a license to do the foregoing actions under any patents of
     the party supplying this software to the X Consortium.


