Date: Sun, 11 Dec 88 11:26:11 EST
To: NeWS-makers@brillig.umd.edu
Subject: faces (visual mail/printer monitor).
From: sunaus!sunchat!richb@Sun.COM (Rich Burridge)

The next three messages contain the latest version of faces, a visual
mail/printer monitor.Could you please place them in your archives.

This is the second general release of a face server for monitoring mail
and print jobs. It is based on the Bell Labs v8 vismon program, and this
version is vismon compatible, but is not derived from AT&T sources.

This version contains drivers for SunView and NeWS graphics systems.

Permission is given to distribute these sources, as long as the
copyright messages are not removed, and no monies are exchanged.

See the README and manual page for more details.

Save the subsequent messages in a new directory, strip off the
beginning down to and including the CUT HERE line, unpack with sh,
then type "make sunview" for the SunView version or "make news" for
the NeWS version. Then install with "make install". Note that you might
need super-user permission to do this successfully. Create your face
directory, hostname sub-directories username ikons/icons, machine and
people tables, and you're set.

Note that if you are compiling faces under v3.x of the SunOS, then there
is a line in the Makefile starting with OSTYPE, that needs to be uncommented.

If anybody can work out what needs to be done to fix the problem of the
window/icon always moving back to the initial position (see the BUGS section
of the man page), then I'll be very pleased to hear from them.

If you already have your face scanned in and iconised and would like to
add it to the library I'm building up, please feel free to email it to me.

Bugs, flames and suggestions to me please.


Acknowledgements.

Thanks go to Guy Harris for the basis of the latest manual page, Dave
Lemke for many excellent suggestions including the animated postscript
faces, to Andrew Nicholson for help with some of the trickier NeWS code,
to Dan Heller for writing the 'watch' program which was consulted
in the early days, to Rob Pike for sending me a copy of the
Pike/Presotto paper "Face the Nation", which I used to get vismon
compatibility, and to everybody else who suggested enhancements, and
fixed bugs in the previous version.

    Rich.

Rich Burridge,          DOMAIN: richb@sunaus.oz.au
PHONE: +61 2 413 2666   UUCP:   {uunet,mcvax,ukc}!munnari!sunaus.oz!richb

