These test files are meant as input to the testmenu program which should be built by the test rule in the cmenu directory. (The cmenu directory should be the parent of the directory in which this file appears. The variaous test file correspond to menu card sets. The testmenu program reads these specifications in and puts up a window. Pressing any mouse button in this window will activate the menus. This is useful for testing out the cmenu package on new servers or after porting to a new windowing system. The testmenu  program should be started with a command line like "testmenu >menus.tst".

The test files supplied are as follows:

firsttitle.test	Test with a title on the first card to make sure that
		things are spaced correctly for worm hole placement.
inactive.test	Has an inactive menu item. (This should appear grayed
		out.)
menus.test	Generic test of a small menu card.
mondo.test	Very large set of menus good for gauging performance.
nospaces.test	Linear set of menus witout spaces for testing how fast
		the mouse tracks vertically along a card.

The syntax of the test files is as follows:

Test files consist of pane (or card) creation lines and item lines. Pane creations make new cards in a menu stack. Item lines place selection items on these cards.

The first field is a pane number. If it is 0, then this is a pane creation line. Otherwise, it is the number of the pane that this menu item is to appear on.

For pane creation lines, the second field is the number of the newly created pane. For item lines, the second field is the priority for the item placement. This determines which group it appears in on the menu card. Priorities are two digit numbers (0-9 are the same as 00-09). The first digit is the group number and the second digit is where within the group this item will appear. Groups are seperated by extra white space on the menu card. However, there will only be one space seperating any two "adjacent" groups no matter what their numbers are. Item and group numbers increase going doward on the menu card.

For pane creation lines, the third field must be 0. For item lines, the third field is the data value to return when this item is selected. This is necessary to make sure the menu package is returning correct values for selections.

The fourth and last field is an optional string that ends at the end of the line. For pane creations, this is the menu card title. For item lines, this is the label of the menu item.
