The util directory contains some scripts and code to help
develop new characters.  Here's a brief synopsis of what's included:

adjustbm -- a tcl/tk script that allows you to drag bitmaps around and
		set a center point.  It gives you feedback on the offsets
		in the x and y directions, which can be used in the player
		config files.

aliases -- some aliases that are useful when trying to build masks.  The
		paths are way out of date.

changeconfig.perl -- a small perl script that takes a player config file			as stdin, and sends a modified version to stdout.  The
		height of y is offset by a predetermined amount.  Useful
		for changing the screen dimensions.

checklist -- a listing of all the frames and moves that are necessary
		to define a character.  Probably out of date to some 
		extent, as it doesn't include all of the headless, spindled
		and otherwise 'finished' images.

cut -- a small shell script to cut/crop a bitmap using pbm utilities.

flipconfig.perl -- a start at a program to convert a right facing player
		config file to that of a left facing one.  Specifically,
		all the x value for attack zones need to be changed to:
		NewValue = BitmapWidth - OldValue.  This requires the 
		header of all bitmaps to be read.  I haven't implemented
		that yet.

howto -- a 17-step list of how to take an image and process it so you can
		build a mask from it.  Obviously references to specific
		paths probably don't apply, but you get the idea.

makemask.c -- a C program that is used to take a 24 bit sun raster image
		and a "reference" image (also 24 bit sun raster) and 
		build a mask from the two.  Specifically, anything that
		is the same in the two images is 0 in the resulting image,
		while anything different is 1.  A poor-man's blue screen.
		Some image editing is required, but it's a good start.
		Command line format is: file reffile output epsilon
		where the file and reffile are the two previously mentioned
		files, output is the name of the output file and epsilon
		is an error tolerance for how close two colors should be 
		for them to be considered the same.  Values from 20-60
		tend to work the best.
