   This version of Rolo is modified to run under Openwindows FCS.
It is intended as an example in running Xview code and a full conversion.
The user interface is designed to conform to openlook.
Drag and drop in implemented in this version.
To load in a rolodex file, simply drag in a file from the filemanager
and drop in the control panel or in the pop window for file loading.
To enter a file as a card, drag in a mailfile  or a file from the filemgr and drop it into the rolocard (textsw) region.

To compile the code, simply change the Makefile to reflect your
machine's architure and the version of you Xnews software.

The README of the original sunview version follows this message.

Phoebe Couch			phoebe@sun.com
[README	 5/18/89]

   This is Rolo Version 2.0.  There is nothing tricky about compiling this,
just unpack everything in a directory and type 'make'.  You may need to
change the target directories in the Makefile if you want to do a
'make install', or you can just compile it and copy the binary and man
page to your favorite locations.

   As far as I know, this code should work on any Sun running 3.2 or
greater, though I personally have only seen it run on a 3.4 3/60C and a
3.2 monochrome 3/160.  If you notice strange behaviour on any hardware/software
combination please let me know (a fix would be nice too...).  I'd especially
like to know for sure that Rolo runs properly on a 386i.

   The Makefile defines the symbol STANDALONE to determine the name of
the main() function.  That is for merging the binary into the toolmerge
library for linking with the other suntools binaries.  If you know what that
means, you'll probably know how to merge Rolo into the combined suntools binary.
If not, don't worry about it, Rolo runs just fine by itself.  In any case,
that silliness is unnecessary with 4.0 and beyond, so it will not be an issue
for much longer.

   Please report any problems, suggestions, bug fixes, etc to me at the
email address below.  Please feel free to pass Rolo around, it is public
domain and carries no restrictions.  I only ask that if you give it to someone,
that you give them everything, source code, man page, the works.  And if
you hack on it, please try to get the changes back to me so that I can make
an attempt to keep things in sync.  Enjoy.


Ron Hitchens		ronbo@vixen.uucp	hitchens@cs.utexas.edu

[@(#)README	2.2 8/16/88]
