
                                   CTWM
                                   ----


    CTWM is an extension to twm, that support multiple virtual screens,
and a lot of other goodies.

    You can use and manage up to  32 virtual screens called workspaces.
You swap  from one workspace to another by  clicking on a button  in an
optionnal panel of buttons (the workspace manager) or by invoking a function.

    You can custom  each workspace by choosing  different colors, names
and pixmaps for the buttons and background root windows.

    Main features are :

        - Optional 3D window titles and border (ala Motif).
        - Shaped, colored icons.
        - Multiple icons for clients based on the icon name.
        - Windows can belong to several workspaces.
        - A map of your workspaces to move quickly windows between
          different workspaces.
        - Animations : icons, root backgrounds and buttons can be animated.
        - Pinnable and sticky menus.
        - etc...

    The sources files  are just the twm ones plus two : workmgr.[ch].
workmgr.[ch]  were built from scratch,  but the twm ones are slightly
modified.  I tried to  minimize  the  modifications,  and it is  even
possible  (but not sure)  that certain  future twm  patches could  be
applied to ctwm sources files. But don't rely on this.

    I certainly introduced many bugs with these modifications. So, be
tolerant.

    If you are happy with ctwm, or find bugs, send me a note to :

            Claude.Lecommandeur@epfl.ch


    Installation :

funny prompt> xmkmf
funny prompt> make

   If you don't have xpm, fetch it from ftp.x.org or comment out the
#define XPM in Imakefile. If you don't have the  m4 preprocessor (or
don't want to use it)  comment out  #define USEM4,  if you  have the
rplay package replace #undef USE_SOUND, by #define USE_SOUND.

    There is a man,  but not quite complete  (any volunteer ?).  Many
useful informations are only in the CHANGES file, so, read it.

    There is a  mailing list :  ctwm@cognac.epfl.ch,  subscribe  at :
ctwm-request@cognac.epfl.ch.
