Unfortunately, this program is os-specific.  It currently supports BSD and
A/UX.

                                  *  *  *  *


/*
 * xman - X window system manual page display program.
 *
 * $XConsortium: README,v 1.4 89/01/06 18:42:34 kit Exp $
 * $Athena: README,v 4.3 88/12/19 13:49:06 kit Exp $
 *
 * Copyright 1987, 1988 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
 * documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
 * that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
 * documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in advertising or
 * publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
 * written prior permission.  M.I.T. makes no representations about the
 * suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
 * without express or implied warranty.
 *
 * Author:    Chris D. Peterson, MIT Project Athena
 * Created:   January 30, 1988 
 */

THANKS:

	Many Thanks go to Ralph Swick who put up with my complaining
about bugs and (mis)features, as well as helping me learn Xtk and Xlib
from scratch.  Win Treese should also be thanked for putting up with
endless general C questions.  I must not forget to mention Barry Shein
whose Xman for X Version 10 got Athena to let me do this project.  

ABOUT THE CODE:

	This program was written, for two princpal reasons, the first
is to create a "real" application that tests the features of the Xtk,
written by someone, who is not intimatly familiar with the guts of
Xtk.  Unfortunatly for you all, I have become quite versed in the guts
of the Athena widget set and the toolkit intrinsics, so I am not
really just a tookit applications programmer anymore.  This means that
some of the things I did may not make sense to you from just reading
the documentation.

	The second reason for writing Xman was to try and break the
toolkit and work out as many of the bugs as possible.  So each error
the I tripped over and believe me there have been many, I found three
just today (2/10/88), saves all of you out there hours of work, and
pain.  Oh yes, I also came up with what I think is a useful tool for all
users who wish to browse the manual pages.  

	The ScrollByLine widget, while it looked like a good idea at
the time, is really a hack and for widget examples please use the widget
set that came on the X tape, as the ScrollByLine Wiget was written about
three months and many Xtk intrinsic revisions ago.  It still works for
me, but it is NOT PRETTY.

	The Window Widget serves its purpose very nicely, I would suggest
for portabality sake that you instansiate the core widget unless you need
the pixmap or foreground color the the window widget supports.

NOTE: The window widget has been removed from the distribution, if      |
      you want a copy, let me know and I will mail it out to you.	|
									|
	The List Widget has replaced the window widget, and handles the	|
directory display very nicely.						|

	One last note, in many places you may wonder why I didn't use
a different widget, or a more compact method of coding.  There are two
reasons for this: one is that the widget may just not have been
avaliable, and the other is that I may not have known about it, the
documentation on the Xtk in those early days was scarce or
nonexistent.  That is the price you pay for developing on a moving and
incomplete baseline.

ABOUT XMAN:

	This program allows quick and easy viewing of the on line
manual pages from the Unix (tm) Programmer's Manual.  I tried to keep
both the naive user and the experience unix hacker in mind.  Thus Xman
is:

1) Easy to use			Start it up, and click the help button 
				to start.
2) More or less Standard	Uses the same default key bindings as 
				other Xtk applications (xmh, xmore).
3) Conserves Screen space	Xman is usable even when resized fairly small.
4) Readily reconfigurable	Xman allows the experienced user to 
				personalize the interface (somewhat :-)
5) Fast 			Once it has started up it has all the 
				information in memory and can find and
				display formatted manual pages quite quickly.

	Changes from version 3.0 (Distributed with X11R2) are in the  	|
file CHANGES. A list of bugs, and nice features is in the file TODO.	|

INSTALLING XMAN:

The only system specific parameter is HELPFILE which should point to a
world readable copy of file xman.help, wherever such things live on
your system.  You may want to edit the default fonts in 'defs.h' to
find fonts that are prettier on your system.  Xman has been tested on
a DEC VS2000, color VSII, and an IBM PCRT, both running 4.3BSD with
nfs linking against approximatly the X11R2 Xlib and Xtk as well as the
Athena widget set.  Building the code should be as simple as editing
the Makefile, to give it the correct information, then:

		make all
		make manual
		make install

If you want to hack on this, please feel free, but send me the diffs, or
perhaps send me a note, as I may have implemeted these or other features.

						Chris Peterson     
						Project Athena     
						Systems Development

ArpaNet: kit@athena.mit.edu		
Phone: (617) 253 - 1326			
USMail: MIT - Room E40-342C		
	77 Massachusetts Ave.		
	Cambridge, MA 02139		

