xvnews -- an openlook newsreader

xvnews is an openlook newsreader that uses the XView 3 toolkit. It has
been tested using Sun OpenWindows version 2 and version 3 xnews servers
along with olvwm, olwm, and twm. I see no reason that xvnews shouldn't run on
any X windowing system that has access to the XView libraries. The
current version of xvnews is tested on both Solaris 1.x and Solaris
2.x platforms. 

How to build xvnews:

1. See the CHANGES file for changes made from the previous release.

2. Does an NNTP server exist on your network? If not, xvnews will not work.

3. Do you have version 3 of the XView toolkit? The latest version is
   available on ftp.x.org in the contrib/xview3 directory, and it also
   comes bundled with OpenWindowsV3.
   If you don't have version3 of the XView toolkit, xvnews will not build.

4. Take a look at the defines in config.h for DOMAIN, NNTPSERVER, 
   and ORGANIZATION.  You may want to change the value of these for 
   your site. You should also take a look at the other defines in
   config.h.

5. Now you are ready to build xvnews. As of version 2.3, the preferred way
   to build xvnews is using the Imakefiles, but the old Makefiles are
   still present. Note that if you are using a Sun then your imake
   system is probably installed the wrong way. (This is the default
   :-( ) You will need to use the Makefile.dist described at b)
   below. 

a) Build xvnews using Imakefiles
   It comes down to the usual. The following sequence should build all
   Makefiles and xvnews.

      xmkmf
      make Makefiles
      make

b) Build xvnews using the old Makefiles
   The Makefile is named 'Makefile.dist'. This Makefile contains pre-defined
   targets for Sun's Solaris 1.x and 2.x, and for Linux. Just typing 
   'make -f Makefile.dist' will show you the targets for those platforms.
   You can then use this target to build xvnews.
   (e.g. 'make -f Makefile.dist sunos5' will build xvnews for Solaris 2.x)

6. If you want a version of xvnews to run on OpenWindowsV2 as well as
   OpenWindowsV3, statically link in libxview and libolgx. However,
   this is no longer the default.

7. make

8. Read the man page (xvnews.1) for answers to your many questions.

9. If you have problems with xvnews, feel free to mail 
   J.J.deGraaff@twi.tudelft.nl

xvnews is compliant with items 1-9 of the "Good Net-Keeping Seal of
Approval, release 1.1" by Ron Newman.