Crock   -- version 1.0
-----

This is a initial version of crock, a rock 'em, sock 'em robots
sort of game.  It borrows ideas from rock 'em, sock 'em robots, mortal
kombat, nethack and probably other things I'm not consciously aware of.
It's designed to be a proof-of-concept, to demonstrate what is possible
and show how to do some things, rather than be a completed project.

Unfortunately I don't have tons of time to fix all the bugs that are
bound to be there.  However, I'll gladly accept contributions of code,
config files and the like to fix things or add new features and characters.
Hell, if there's enough interest, someone can start a newsgroup.

Compiling crock
---------------

I've tried to make this version somewhat stable and sane.  With luck
you won't have to do more than edit the src/Imakefile and change the path
for the three files at the top there.  Also, if you don't have netaudio
or nas or whatever it's being called, then comment out the lines from
the Imakefile.

Running crock
-------------

For two player mode, give the second person's display as a parameter,
e.g., crock football.cis.ohio-state.edu:0.0.

It will bring up a window and begin loading up images to the X server.
When that is complete, the window will resize and it's time to fight.
For key bindings, look at the bottom of the gecko.load and tb.load files.

The object is to knock out your opponent, the energy level for each player
is at the top of the screen.  The block and crouch keys must be held 
(and releasing them puts you back into the 'stance'), all others initiate
a sequence.  Blocked moves do little damage and cause the attacker to 
be held in that position momentarily, helpless against retaliation.  Both
players have projectile weapons, though the effects are very different.
"Fatality" moves can only be performed at the end of a round.

A round ends when either the time runs out or a player runs out of energy.
At that point it will ask you click on the "play again?" or "quit" buttons.

This should be enough to start.  On Suns and HPs the performance is decent.  
I've seen poor performance on some platforms.  Don't know why.

The #define'd variable TICK influences how many frames per second there are.
"sleeptime" a variable in crock.c:mainloop() is my favorite way of temporarily
changing this (via gdb).

Thanks
------

"I hate you all, I have no one to thank but myself."  -- Al Bundy.

Actually, there've been many people that have helped me on the crock
project.  Lots of OSU-CIS people and some others elsewhere.  First
there is Golden "Sel-Fesh" Richard III and Camilo "Gecko" Lemos for the
very late night of videotaping.  There's Steve "Beerhunter" Romig, who
provided lots of enthusiasm and testing (yes, there'd be more bugs
otherwise).  He'd be in the game if it weren't so damn hard to put all
those arms on him.  Tom "Crusher" Fine for lots of suggestions, help
with some of the image processing, and being one of the early
characters (for the curious, I was the other).  Mowgli Assor, who we
digitized in the early phase but alas never used those images; the
'doorbreaker' move would've been great.  Scott King for the 16 ton
weight suggestion (which Tom drew; on the other hand, Tom also drew the
heart).  And Mike Moore for a few suggestions.  Also, without Golden's 
PC and time, most of the sounds wouldn't have happened.  To the 
Smithsonian Institude for some really cool backgrounds they have on the 
web.  To all that were involved, thanks!


     Copyright (c) 1994    Frank Adelstein

     The X Consortium, and any party obtaining a copy of these files from
     the X Consortium, directly or indirectly, is granted, free of charge, a
     full and unrestricted irrevocable, world-wide, paid up, royalty-free,
     nonexclusive right and license to deal in this software and
     documentation files (the "Software"), including without limitation the
     rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
     and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons who receive
     copies from any such party to do so.  This license includes without
     limitation a license to do the foregoing actions under any patents of
     the party supplying this software to the X Consortium.

Let me know if there are problems, questions or answers.  Thanks.

--Frank Adelstein.
  frank@cis.ohio-state.edu.

