FSPtool Resources (31/07/93)
----------------------------

As of FSPtool version 1.3 all of the saveable settings and data are saved in
two files ~/.fsphosts and the application resource file ~/.fsptooldefaults .


fsphosts
--------

An unofficial - but widely used - standard has emerged in the form of the "taxus"
format ~/.fsphosts file. This is a file stored in the user's home directory which
contains details of hosts' addresses, ports, remote directory to go to and some
brief descriptive data. All of this data is associated with a particular alias
which identifies a host individually like so:

Host-Address		Port	Alias	Dir	Info

ftp.germany.eu.net	2001	EUnet	/	Large Archive (Usenet)
taxus.uib.no		9000	Taxus	/	FSPadmin stuff, fsp-shell

An example file is included with the distribution as "fsphosts.example", if you
don't already have a .fsphosts file then you could move this to your home
directory as .fsphosts and use it as the basis of one.

FSPtool follows this standard convention, when run it loads the ~/.fsphosts file -
if found. From within the application the hosts data can be altered and added to
and a new ~/.fsphosts file can be saved with the information in it. This file will
be in the taxus format.

FSPtool does not entirely follow the convention, each aliases information can only
consist of a single line of data with a maximum length for each item. The details
can be found by pressing <HELP> (or the appropriate HELP key on your system) over
each of the fields in the "Hosts Information" frame. This shouldn't be a concern
however as the bounds are fairly generous - but within the program I've had to
draw a limit at some point :-( .


fsptooldefaults
---------------

All of the application resources specific to the program are stored in one file.

When loading the resources as happens when the program is started it will load
the ~/.fsptooldefaults resource file, into the applications resource database.
When saving any of the options from the application the database is updated with
the new value and the database is written out to the ~/.fsptooldefaults file.

Editing the resource file manually is not recommended unless you know what you are
doing :-> . All options in the resource base are editable from within the
application itself and this is the recommended way to alter setups.

