REVISIONS
---------

v.1.6.1 15th December 1993 --

	Another (hopefully final) alteration to allow compilation of FSPtool on
	Sun-3 systems using gcc. Confirmation that this works from the patch
	master himself ;-> Steve Beaty.

	Fixed one other problem, noticed that new code to prevent early timing
	out on the part of FSPtool also had the effect of it ignoring the fact
	that the FSP client had given up and timed out, oops ! Fixed this so
	it should both hang on as long as possible but also give up when FSP
	client has given up ( or if some sort of error message is recieved ).

-----------------------------------------------

v.1.6.0 12th December 1993 --

	Addition of ability to carry out limited logging of FSPtool use.

	Re-implemented the ioctl call in fsp.c::read_client_data which checks
	that there are at least 1 or more bytes to read and prevents the client
	blocking on the initial read call.

	Should now be okay for Sun-3 Systems, previously problems were
	encountered with menu listings. Thanks to Steve Beaty (beaty@com.craycos)
	and Simon Ashford (sja@uk.co.national-physical-lab.ns) for pointing out
	to me that this problem existed.

	Corrected oversight which allowed you to try and execute a directory
	from the view selected files options.

	Fixed silly little bug which meant the directory cache wouldn't always be
	completely emptied when moving to a new host. Thanks to Pete Jones
	(pmj@uk.ac.liverpool.physics.ns) for pointing that one out.

	First decent set of man pages added, they are now up to date and usable.
	Corresponding run-time help also updated.

	Fixed up Imakefiles so "make install" and "make install.man" work
	correctly. Thank Pete Jones again for spurring me to fix this problem.

-----------------------------------------------

v.1.5.0 26th November 1993 --

	Added additional optional define statement to Configure.tmpl so that
	installers using SVR4 or SYSV systems where these flags are not defined
	within the imake configuration files, can define them easily themselves.
	Some Solaris installations for example don't define SVR4 anywhere despite
	the fact that it is a System V Release 4 system and FSPtool needs to know
	this.

	Filetype view fields now accepts spaced arguments for the program which
	is to be run. By default filename is tagged onto end, however if %f is
	contained in arguments then filename will be placed in there instead.

	File transfering made somewhat more resilient, shouldn't abort with errors
	along the lines of "RRRIIEE" and so on. Carries on until the actual fsp
	client gives up.

-----------------------------------------------

v.1.5.0 beta 14th November 1993 --

	Local directory reading now done through opendir, readdir and stat. This
	is the way it should be done and now also allows the local directory
	listing to be updated as files are downloaded. This also means that file
	links will be transparent within the display as the file refered to by
	the link will be referenced and it's details displayed.

	Fixed a bug in the "Put Files" option. If the fput client died before the
	filename was written to it then a SIGPIPE would be generated, this is
	now captured and the fact that the send failed acknowledged. This can
	happen if an invalid host/port combination is used or if the remote
	host simply dies.

	Man pages are now written and added to the distribution. Though they may
	need some more work.

	The "Set Host" frame will no longer pop-down when unpinned after a menu
	item is selected. This is mainly for twm and Mwm users who can't pin the
	frame using the window manager.

	Updated the read free space routine, now uses statfs to obtain free space
	information direct from OS rather than bodging it through df, also gets
	space for the current FSP local directory rather than just the cwd as
	previous.

	New properties option to allow the user to set the names of the FSP
	client programs they want to use. Overrides the compiled in defaults.

	<QUIT PROGRAM> option now added to the <FILE> menu, to allow people
	using Window Managers that don't provide a QUIT window option to get out
	of the program neatly.

	New FSPtool properties options added to allow people without OpenLook
	window managers to use FSPtool more easily. Allows for whether you're
	using an OpenLook WM or not, closing windows on <Cancel> and closing
	windows when they are selected from a menu if they are already being
	displayed.

	Replaced calls to getdtablesize to getrlimit(RLIMIT_NOFILE, ...)
	Changed some of the pipe stuff in lib/unix.c and under lib/fps.c
	Calls to statfs are different under SVR4 || SYSV within free_space fn and
	are replaced with statvfs.

	Use of vfork call removed, two reasons; it makes the code more POSIX.1
	compliant and more importantly double-clicking on a remote file would
	cause FSPtool to seg-fault after forking the new remote file client.
	Couldn't track this down as it would core dump in unpredictable places
	sometimes in FSPtool sometimes in the XView routines and sometimes in
	system calls ! <-- this problem only applied to compilation under
	Solaris 2.2 .

	Total size of transfer know reflected in a units (bytes,Kbytes,Mbytes)
	adjusted figure in the left footer of the transfer status frame. Totals
	for directory downloads are now computed as well so the total figure is
	always an accurate indication of the amount which is should be downloaded.

	Added the batch transfer window and the associated functionality so that
	you can now download files in the batch manner.

-----------------------------------------------

v.1.4.0 27th September 1993 --

	Added directory caching, up to 50 remote directories can now be cached in
	memory and read from there. Directories are updated when entered explicitly
	from the remote directory text field, or if they are deemed to be out of
	date, the default being cached more than 15 minutes ago but this is
	adjustable. Any of the directories in the cache can also be selected from
	a pull-down menu at left of dir text field.

	Files can now also be sorted by size order, from smallest to largest or
	vice-versa. Sorting is now performed differently, all lists are read in
	the standard alphabetic order from flscmd, then sorted into the required
	order if it is different. This allows the cache routines to re-order a
	directory and return it without having to read from the remote host again.

	Application now does automatic decompression of downloaded files which
	have been double clicked upon, ie: selected for execution. Gzip is the
	prefered decompression utility but if that isn't available then uncompress
	can be used, though that only copes with .Z files. Selection of filetype
	is now fixed so that the type of a file is determined and displayed even
	if .gz or .Z or whatever is the last component of the name - assuming that
	the rest of the name is something recognisable.
 
	Taken some system dependencies out of the xview files and placed into lib/
	unix.c . At the same time system dependencies which cannot be separated
	from a toolkit have been moved to <toolkit>/system.c

	The fgetcmd process is now killed correctly when the <ABORT> button is
	used. Previously this process might have run on in the background
	obtaining whatever file it was last told to fetch.

-----------------------------------------------

v.1.3.2 15th August 1993 --

	Fixed bug which was causing the app to use the remote directory value of
	the last selected host menu host, even when a host/port had been entered
	into the fields manually.

	Updated a couple of sections of the FSPtool.info help file.

	All of the icons and icon loading routines have been changed to use X
	Bitmap format icons, rather than the previous XView Icon ones. This eases
	use of the icons with the non-XView using Motif versions.

-----------------------------------------------

v.1.3.1 6th August 1993 --

	This version is mainly for bug-fixes :-( . The problems with segmentation
	faults when no ~/.fsphosts file exists has been fixed, the hosts menu is
	now updated when changes are made to the hosts list and a bug in the fsp.c
	routine set_fsp_timeout, which was actually setting the FSP_LOCALPORT
	value has been fixed.

	Some new stuff however, a few minor functional improvements to things like
	the hosts list selector. The FSPtool.info file is now up to date and
	should cover all of the buttons and items within the program. Noticed that
	when saved resources for Sort Reverse are set up they are the wrong way
	round, so fixed that.

	FSPtool should now run much more happily under mwm and twm and other non-
	OpenLook window managers. All of the visible sub-windows should be un-
	mapped when the main window is iconised and vice-versa. They should also
	appear in the locations they were in when the user carried out a "Save
	Layout" action.

-----------------------------------------------

v.1.3.0 28th July 1993 --

	Some minor tweaking and changes to functions and data-structures.

	Complete resource management is now present, unfortunately this means that
	any old ~/.fsptoollayout files will now no longer work but :-( . This is
	the final form however and there won't be any change needed in future.
	All of the "Save" options within the program will now do exactly that,
	saving the data to an application resource file, frame layout information
	is also stored in this file. Read the file "RESOURCES" for full details.

	Drag'n'drop functionality is now present for dropping files onto the
	drop site in the remote directory listing "baseframe" frame. Drag a file
	from an application which sends the "FILE_NAME" atom, such as the
	OpenWindows file-manager this file will then be uploaded to the current
	FSP remote directory. Only one file a drag is currently possible and
	the percentage transfer and file size indicators don't indicate correctly.

-----------------------------------------------

v.1.2.0 22nd July 1993 --

	Environment variable port and host info if set is placed into set host
	frame.

	Icon label now indicates the percentage of file down/upload completed.

	Stream reading routines which read fsp client output streams updated.
	Should now be somewhat more robust and give better error reporting.

	Added host list menu support, reads from ~/.fsphosts file which should be
	in taxus format ie: "host port alias /remote_dir description". Gives hosts
	menu on sethost frame. New frame is Host Information this gives full
	details of each known host alias, allows you to add, edit and delete
	entries, save current list and load the ~/.fsphosts file once again. Read
	the "RESOURCES" file for more information.

-----------------------------------------------

v.1.1.0 12th July 1993 --

	Bit of a version jump but then a lot has changed. Re-organisation of
	code completed, fluff and stuff taken out, resulting code is neater
	and should be easier to debug and test. Number of global data references
	greatly reduced most things are set through functions -- temptation to
	re-write it all in c++ is avoided.

	Main changes -- local directory listing can now be treated exactly like
	remote, double click to change directory and execute files.

	Files can now be uploaded, select files in the local listing and click on
	the local File button this sends files to the current remote directory.

	FSPtool icon is now animated during Up/Download, goes one way for Upload
	and the other for Download.

	Beginnings of the full Drag/Drop interface so code now needs at least
	XView version 3.0 in order to compile.

	When a remote file is double-clicked on it's downloaded to the current
	directory and an appropriate program is run to load it. When this program
	terminates FSPtool receives the signal and removes the downloaded file,
	if it's still there. This doesn't -- and shouldn't -- happen when running
	a file from the local directory listing directly.

-----------------------------------------------

v.1.0.3 3rd July 1993 --

	Correct handling of links included so that problems are not encountered
	when traversing disk structure using links. FSP directory is now updated
	immediately a change to the sort mode is made. Setting to allow the local
	FSP client port and timeout values to be changed.

	Thanks to Pete Biggs for a problem pointed out in between 1.0.2 and 1.0.3
	fix was posted to alt.comp.fsp and the 1.0.3 release is corrected.

------------------------------------------------

v.1.0.2 30th June 1993 --

	Whoops! error in error handling routines in fsp.c corrected. Thanks to
	Pete Bevin for that one.

------------------------------------------------

v.1.0.1 29th June 1993 --

	First public release of FSPtool

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
