
This is version 1.4 of the scantool program. It can interface to a Microtek
MS300A scanner, scan the document, and turn the image into a Sun rasterfile,
which can be read by dtp programs such as Frame Maker.

Permission is given to distribute these sources, as long as the copyright
notices are not removed, and no monies are exchanged.

Fixes and improvements in version 1.4 include:

  +Fixed the exhaustion of file descriptors problem.
  +All values from the Grain and Resolution menus are now selectable.
  +All scans now produce valid scanning frames.
  +Compressed scans now fully work.
  +Format of the rasterfiles has been changed from RT_OLD to RT_STANDARD.
  +Show option has been added.
  +The RETURN key is now also valid for the confirm popup.
  +Window resizing is prevented.
  +Graphics code has been isolated and program has been generally tidyed up.
  +Support for SunOS v3.x and SunOS v4.x
  +The scanning operation has been separated out into a second program.
  +Inclusion of an XView graphics driver.

The software is now divided into two programs; scantool a frontend window
based program for setting the scanning options, and scan, the program that
will actually perform the scan. It should also be possible to run this
scan program on it's own, but there are several command line options to
setup, so it's probably easier through scantool.

**IMPORTANT NOTE**

I no longer have access to a Microtek MS300A scanner. If you find problems
in this area, then you are on your own. I will be very happy to incorporate
any fixes you make, so other people can enjoy them as well.

Installation.
-------------

Firstly you should look at the beginning of the Makefile to see if you need
to tweak any of the initial definitions there. If you are generating a SunView
version under SunOS v4.0.x, then this is unlikely.

Next you either select "make sunview" or "make xview", to generate the
version you require. This should be followed by a "make install" and a
"make clean".

The program currently assumes the scanner is attached to the Sun's A or B
RS232 port. A serial cable will be needed to run between the scanner and the
Sun. I have used the following setup in the past:

         MS-300A                           SUN
      ------------                     ----------
    Pin No.    Name      Direction     Pin No.    Name
   ---------  ------  --------------  ---------  ------
       2       TXD    Scanner to Sun      3       RXD
       3       RXD    Sun to scanner      2       TXD
       7       GND        ---             7       GND

Suggestions for furthur improvement would be most welcome, plus bugs,
comments and flames.

Rich Burridge,          DOMAIN: richb@Aus.Sun.COM
PHONE: +61 2 413 2666   ACSNET: richb@sunaus.sun.oz
                        UUCP:   {uunet,mcvax,ukc}!munnari!sunaus.oz!richb
