Announcing OLWAIS  - an  OpenLook wais client.

Tar Heel Information Services are pleased to announce OLWAIS, a new Openwindows
WAIS client for testing. This release now  includes source code. 

This version now supports relevance feedback- to add a document to the relevance 
feedback list, select that document, then chose "make relevant" from 
the pop-up menu. To remove a relevant document, select it in the relevant 
documents window, then select "remove" from the popup

The file olw.rc should be copied to your home directory as .olwrc; sources should
be in ~/wais-sources

--------------- PREVIOUS README ----------------
Announcing OLWAIS  - a new OpenLook wais client.

Tar Heel Information Services are pleased to announce OLWAIS, a new Openwindows
WAIS client for testing.  This release is binary  only for sparc. Next
release will include C++ source. 

There are still a few missing pieces, but I 
wanted to get it out so I could get some feedback.

This version is mostly complete- the missing features are relevance
feedback (nearly there, but not quite), graphical configuration for
result types; searching when return is typed, plus some changes to the
way that double clicking works.

This client bears no releationship with the other open look wais; it
uses a multi window interface, and is  less cluttered  than other X
interfaces. 


Make sure that olw.rc and help.au are in the current directory. 

When viewing an item, make sure that the item you wish to view is not
selected before you double-click; otherwise you'll just de-select and
then re-select the item. This is done to help prevent accidental retrievals
when all that was  wanted was the popup menu, but I'm tempted to disable the 
check, as it seems to cause confusion. 

The background noise in the help file is Jon Magid doing his best to make
me laugh.

Please send bug-reports to ses=olwais@tipper.oit.unc.edu
---------------------------------------------------------
Tar Heel Information Services - Masters of the Jump Hack, 
		                Nothing but Net!




