This directory contains many variations based on basicwin, the program
used as an example in Chapter 3.  Parts of many of these examples are 
used elsewhere in the book, and some of them were just modified to 
demonstrate certain X features.

Note that only a few of these programs conform to the current 
Interclient Communication Conventions (ICCCM), namely the
example in the directory basic.  These programs
were written before the advent of the current ICCCM, and it doesn't
seem worth changing them all since they still run fine and still 
demonstrate what they were originally intended to.
But if you actually intend to write a program with Xlib (not use
a Toolkit), use basic/basicwin.c as the example for setting window
manager properties.

The directories available are:

attribs		demonstrates win gravity and was used to check whether
		background pixmaps or pixel values take precedence and the
		same for borders.  Not used in the book.
basic
		The basic basicwin.  This may have been modified before
		using it in the book.  Namely, the XGetIconSizes code has
		been taken out since there is nothing good to do with this
		info yet.
bitmaps
		The icon bitmap data for basicwin. No programs.
color
		Several different routines that handle color.  One
		gets read-only colors, one gets read/write colors, 
		another read/write colors for overlays.  
dashes
		Sets up a bunch of line dashes in separate GCs, and
		draws them.
doreg
		Demonstrates Exposure processing using regions.
		(May not be working properly.)
getvis
		gets information about default visuals and standard colormaps.
motion
		Examples demonstrating tracking pointer motion in two 
		ways, using all motion events and using motion hints.
		Both programs implement a simple drawing program in 
		their subwindow.
popup
		Implements a pop-up box you can type into.
predproc
		Implements a predicate procedure for processing events.
reflect
		Uses images to create a reflection of a window.
tiles
		Code for creating bitmaps from included data and 
		from reading a file.
trans
		Example for tracking whether keyboard is active, using
		focus and border crossing events
